
                            * Neverball *


Tilt the  floor to roll a  ball through an obstacle  course within the
given  time.  If  the  ball falls  or time  expires, a ball is lost.

Collect coins  to unlock the exit and earn extra balls.  Red coins are
worth  5.  Blue coins are worth  10.  Violet coins are worth 25.  Lime
coins are worth 50.
A ball is awarded  for  100 coins,  while orange coins worth 100 coins
each.

NOTE:  If you are getting an error when trying  to  update then please
uninstall previous version first.  I'm really sorry for that, but that
is  the  only solution for critical problem that  I  was able to find.


* INSTRUCTIONS

Click Play  to begin.   Mouse motion tilts  the floor.   Mouse buttons
rotate the viewpoint.  The following  keyboard controls are defined by
default; most  of them can  be changed  in a configuration  file.  See
below for details.

    ESC    Pause and resume / Exit
    SHIFT  Fast camera rotation

    1      Chase Camera (Default in Neverball)
    2      Static Camera (Default in Switchball)
    3      Manual Camera

    F9     Toggle frame counter
    F1     Hide HUD
    F12    Snap a screenshot

    UP     Tilt the floor forward
    DOWN   Tilt the floor backward
    LEFT   Tilt the floor left
    RIGHT  Tilt the floor right

    D      Rotate the view right
    S      Rotate the view left

    R      Restart the current level (only for  classic,  campaign and
           standalone)

    TAB    Cycle through scores in high-score table


* CAMPAIGN

Neverball levels  are  grouped in Campaign with Worlds in Home Edition
and above. Click the left one in the level group to start the Campaign
first.

In  Hardcore mode  is  similar like an Challenge mode. All checkpoints
were removed  and the game cannot be saved,  but  with only  one ball.


* LEVEL PROGRESSION

Neverball levels are also grouped  in  level sets.  To unlock the sets
in Home Editions, you need to complete the game.

There are three game modes or ways of progressing through the  levels: 
the Classic, Challenge and Boost rush mode.

In  Classic  mode,  no  track  of  lives  or  balls   is  kept.   Each
unlocked/completed level is immediately  accessible and can be retried
and restarted at any point.  

In Challenge mode,  the player is given a limited  number of balls and
attempts to  complete all  of the  levels in  turn, starting  with the
first level.  The game ends once  the  balls run out and the wallet is
insufficent.  In addition,  Google Wallet API  is  sent  from  In-Game
Purchases  to  it's developers by the payer (available on selected Pro
edition and above).  A set score  is  recorded upon completion. Levels
cannot be restarted freely.

In Boost rush mode,  the  player  is  given  a speed indicator like an
Challenge mode,  uses  for auto-forward levels.  The acceleration will
decreases  every half percent if timer expires.  The roll acceleration
increases forward rapidly every  ten  coins  while  blue  coins  worth
10 coins each.

The next  set  in  Pro edition and below except Boost rush mode is now
unlocked, once the set is completed.

A set may contain a number of bonus levels.  Bonus levels are unlocked
by playing Challenge mode and completing  all of the levels leading up
to  each bonus  level.   After  unlocking a  bonus  level, it  becomes
playable in Classic mode.

A set may also contain a number of master levels. After it's unlocked,
the player must playing the level with Challenge mode.

OR  if you're using Home edition and above, you can also buy the Bonus
pack  in the shop,  but only all bonus levels will unlock immediately.


* CHECKPOINTS

This campaign is available on selected Home edition and above.

Checkpoint  is  similar  like  an  teleporters.   You  will  save  the
spawnpoint, when  you  reach  it.  If  anything bad happens,  you will
start over from here.


* SPECIAL POWERS

This special powers is available on selected Pro edition and above.

Special powers needs help to improve the level  but it gives a limited
number of amounts. There are three special powers:

    EARNINATOR   Earn x2 coins for each level
    FLOATIFIER   Reduces gravity by 50%
    SPEEDIFIER   Increases tilt and reduces drag

If you want to  get more,  go to: Main Menu > Shop to buy more special
powers.


* USER DATA FILES

Neverball  creates a  directory in  which it  stores user  data files.
These  files include  addons, screenshots,  high scores,  replays, and
configurations.

Under Unix and Linux, this directory is called ".neverball"  (a hidden
folder) and is created in the user's home directory.

Under Windows it is created in "Documents\My Games\Neverball".


* ADDONS

Additional Neverball content is usually distributed as a ZIP or PK3 (a
renamed ZIP) file.   A properly packaged ZIP file can  be installed by
dropping it into  the game data directory.  After a  restart, the game
will automatically use the new content.


* SCREENSHOTS

Screenshots taken in-game with the F12 key are stored in PNG format in
the user data directory.

In Steam, it is stored only in game data directory.


* RANKS

In-game-ranks is available on selected Home edition and above.

In  the  Tradition  of  Space Agency Classic and 2138, the rank system
tracks the player's progress through Campaign mode.

    Airline Cadet

        This is the rank held by all trainee campaigns.  Once you have
        completed the first three levels, you will be given your wings
        and awarded one of the following ranks...

    Bronze Commander

        This  is  the  lowest  post-training  rank.  You have achieved
        mostly Bronze awards in your missions. You must try harder!

    Silver Commander

        You  will  be  given this rank when  you  have achieved mostly
        Silver awards

    Gold Commander

        You  will  be  given this rank when  you  have achieved mostly
        Gold awards

    Elite Commander

        Elite Commander  is awarded  to  those extraordinary campaigns
        who achieve Gold  in every levels they attempt.  You must have
        flown at least 12 levels before you will be considered for the
        Elite status.


* HIGH SCORES

The top  three fastest  time  through each  level, the top  three coin
scores  and the top  three fastest  unlock scores  for each  level are
stored in the Scores directory within user data directory.

The top three  fastest  time and most coins scores  for  campaign  are
also stored. To achieve a campaign score, the player must play through
all levels of campaign in Hardcore mode.

The top three  fastest  time and most coins scores  for each level set
are also stored.  To achieve a set score, the player must play through
all levels of a set in Challenge mode.

The total set time will  include time spent during both successful and
unsuccessful level plays, thus  time-outs and fall-outs  count against
the total time.

The total campaign  or  set time will from checkpoint level time after
respawn substracted.


* REPLAYS

Some replay status limits is  locked down between 16:00 - 6:00 Morning
(4:00 PM - 6:00 AM Morning).

Neverball  includes a  mechanism for  recording and  replaying levels.
The player may enter  a name for each replay at the  end of the level.
By default, the most recent unsaved  level will be saved to the replay
file named "Last.nbr".

Replay files are stored in the  Replays directory within the user data
directory.  They may be copied freely.   To view a replay, simply open
it with the Neverball executable. You  can also move it to the Replays
directory and it will appear in the Replay menu in-game.

You can also restrict save and load replay filters in the Account menu,
which is default by the Options menu.

Exceeded level status above the limits, which unsuccessful level plays,
will also permanently deleted!  In addition,  Pennyball Discord estate
Hamburg scans a lots of replays and deleted it from the server,  which
has an Discord community server rule.


* SHOP

In-game-shop is available on selected Home edition and above.

Coins are the currency with which you buy everything that  is  sold in
the Shop.  They can  NOT  be acquired with real money in any way, they
are the games functioning in game currency like gold, coins etc. found
in other games.

New balls can be purchased for 15 gems in Challenge mode, not Hardcore.
To earn the gems for free, you must complete the Challenge mode in the
Level Set.

If  you want  to  buy more balls before playing Challenge mode,  go to
Shop.


* CONFIGURATION

Game  settings are stored  in the  file neverballrc  in the  user data
directory.  This file is created when it changes from in-game settings
or the game exits.  It consists of key/value pairs.  Other  meaningful
keys and their default values follow.

    width  1200
    height 900

        These keys determine the effective display resolution.  If for
        any reason  the resolution you're looking  for isn't available
        in the in-game settings, you can modify these values instead.

    fullscreen 0

        This key determines whether or not the application starts full
        screen.

    display 0

        Selects on which display the game window is placed.

    tilting_floor 1

        This key controls neither tilt the floor nor move the ball. If
        you're  using  Campaign,    you  cannot  enable  this  option.
        (Available for selected version 1.9 and above)

    mouse_sense 300

        This  key controls  mouse  sensitivity.  The  value gives  the
        number of screen pixels the  mouse pointer must move to rotate
        the floor  through its entire  range.  A smaller  number means
        more sensitive.

    mouse_invert 0

        This key inverts the vertical mouse axis if set to 1.

    key_camera_1      1
    key_camera_2      2
    key_camera_3      3
    key_camera_l      s
    key_camera_r      d
    key_camera_toggle e

        These keys  define keyboard mappings for  camera selection and
        rotation.  The three camera behaviors are as follows:

        1 - Chase  camera stays behind  the ball by cueing  off of the
        velocity of the  ball.  It is very  responsive,  but sometimes
        confusing.

        2 - Lazy  camera chases a point a set  distance from the ball.
        It is seldom  surprising, but at times it  is not sufficiently
        responsive.

        3 - Manual camera  does not rotate  except by  player command.

        The default values  for these keys changed with version 1.7.1.
        Some players may be interested in using the  new values.  They
        were as follows:

            key_camera_1      3
            key_camera_2      1
            key_camera_3      2
            key_camera_l      d
            key_camera_r      a
            key_camera_toggle c

    key_camera_toggle toggles camera behaviour between 1 and 3.

    mouse_camera_1      none
    mouse_camera_2      none
    mouse_camera_3      none
    mouse_camera_l      left
    mouse_camera_r      right
    mouse_camera_toggle middle

        These   keys  match   the  respective   key_camera_*  options.
        Accepted values are: "none" (for no mapping), "left", "right",
        "wheelup",  "middle", "wheeldown"  or a  numeric  mouse button
        index.

    camera_rotate_mode 1

        This key  changes camera rotation mode.  There are as follows:

        0 - When "Inverted" is set, select this option will switch the
        camera rotation rate exactly.  Useful when playing  this level
        using Switchball HD controls.

        1 - Flip camera rotation (default).

    key_forward  up
    key_backward down
    key_left     left
    key_right    right

        These keys define keyboard mappings for tilt control.

    key_restart r

        This key defines a keyboard  mapping for a mid-game restart of
        the  current  level.   Handy  when  trying  to  record  a  new
        high-score, this function isn't available in challenge mode.

    key_score_next tab

        This key  defines a keyboard mapping for  cycling through Most
        Coins / Best Times /  Fast Unlock score tabs in the high-score
        board.

    view_fov 50
    view_dp  75
    view_dc  25
    view_dz  200

        These keys  define the view of the ball.  They give  the field
        of view in degrees,  the height of the view point,  the height
        of the view center,  and the horizontal distance from the ball
        in centimeters, respectively.  (The ball is  50 centimeters in
        diameter in most levels.)

        The default values  for these keys changed with version 1.2.6.
        Some players may be interested in using the  old values.  They
        were as follows:

            view_fov 40
            view_dp  400
            view_dc  0
            view_dz  600

    rotate_fast 300
    rotate_slow 150

        These keys control the rate of camera rotation.  Roughly, they
        give  the rate  of lateral  camera motion  in  centimeters per
        seconds,  so the  actual rotation  rate depends  upon view_dz,
        above.  The fast rate is used when the Shift key is held down.

    touch_rotate 16

        (Touchscreen only)  Defines the fraction of the screen that you
        need to swipe across to reach rotate_slow rotation speed. E.g.,
        a value of 16 means 1/16  of  screen.  You can swipe farther to
        reach the rotate_fast rotation speed.

    fps 0

        This key enables an on-screen frames-per-second counter. Press
        F9 to toggle this flag in-game.

    nice 0

        This  key  enables  a  delay  function  after  each  frame  is
        rendered, forcing a context  switch and ensuring that the game
        does not utilize 100% of the CPU.  0 is off, 1 is on.

        If the  frame rate is not  fast enough for you,  or you simply
        want to  test the  performance of the  game on  your hardware,
        disable it.

        See config keys "smooth_fix" and "force_smooth_fix"  for more
        information.

    screen_animation 1

        This key enables the menu screen animations.
        (Available for selected version 1.8 and above)

    ball_file ball/basic-ball/basic-ball

        This key determines the model used for the ball.  Changing the
        player name will your model automatically replaced.

    replay_name %s-%l-%r

        This  key specifies  the  format of  the  default replay  name
        generated when saving replays.

        The value  of replay_name  can include regular  characters and
        special  character sequences  which act  as place-holders  for
        certain "dynamic" text.  These sequences are recognised:

            %s  current set identifier (such as "easy" or "mym")
            %l  current level identifier (such as "03" or "IV")
            %r  current level status (such as "xf" or "xt")
            %%  single percentage sign

        Any other sequence starting with % is ignored.

        The resulting  replay name is  also suffixed by  an underscore
        and  a  unique  date  format  to  avoid  name collisions  with
        existing replays.

    stats 0

        This  key enables  print-out (to  standard output)  of running
        statistics  of  the current frame time  and frames-per-second,
        averaged over  one  second.  In Steam version or version 1.7+,
        you cannot enable this option.

    screenshot 0

        This key  holds the current  screenshot index.  The  number is
        incremented every time a  new screenshot is taken (by pressing
        F12) and it is appended to the image file name.  In  Steam you
        cannot set this value.

    stereo 0

        This key  enables quad-buffered stereo viewing  for those with
        the hardware to support it.  1 is on, 0 is off.

    smooth_fix 1

        This key  makes some game optimizations  that can  reduce lag.
        Disable it if game speed becomes inconsistent.

    force_smooth_fix 0

        Smooth  fix  is  normally disabled,  if  a  level  is lagging,
        this forces smooth  fix  to  remain enabled.  Toggle  to  test
        if the performance  is  better with smooth fix always enabled.

    vsync 1

        This key controls vertical  blanking synchronization.  1 is on
        (and is the default), 0 is off.

    multisample 0

        This key enables multisample full-screen antialiasing.  Values
        can be 2,  4, 8, etc., and can be  overspecified; in such case
        the game  will search for  the highest level  of multisampling
        supported by  your hardware.  (The best  value eventually gets
        written to the config file.)

    mipmap 1
    aniso  0

        These  keys  control  mipmapping  and  anisotropic  filtering,
        respectively.

        With mipmapping, smaller versions of  each texture are kept in
        video  memory, and  are referenced  when a  texture is  viewed
        from  a distance.   This  improves video  cache coherence  and
        eliminates texture  "swimming" on detailed textures  when seen
        from afar.  To disable mipmapping, set mipmap to 0.

        Related to mipmapping is anisotropic filtering.  "Anisotropic"
        basically means "not the same from all directions".  It refers
        to  cases where  a texture  might need  to be  compressed more
        vertically than  horizontally.  For  example, if a  texture is
        applied  to a  flat surface  and seen  from far  away then  it
        appears  much wider  than high.   Anisotropic filtering  takes
        care of  this.  Its level is expressed as a small power of two.
        To disable  it, set  aniso to 0. If  you  have  weak hardware,
        you can't add this key value.

    joystick 1

        This key  enables joystick control.  0  is off, 1  is on.  The
        game may still be controlled with the mouse even while gamepad
        control  is enabled.   However,  random noise  from an  analog
        controller at rest can disrupt normal mouse input.

    joystick_axis_x 0

        Joystick horizontal axis number

    joystick_axis_y 1

        Joystick vertical axis number

    joystick_axis_u 2

        Joystick axis number for view rotation control

    joystick_button_a 0

        Joystick menu select button

    joystick_button_b 1

        Joystick menu cancel button

    joystick_button_r 2

        Joystick counter-clockwise camera rotation button

    joystick_button_l 3

        Joystick clockwise camera rotation button

    joystick_button_exit 4

        Joystick exit button

    wiimote_addr

        This key  specifies the address  of your Nintendo  Wii Remote.
        For more  information, see the  section on using  Wiimote with
        Neverball.

    dedicated_ipaddress play.neverball.org
    dedicated_ipport    5000

        This  key  specifies the IPv4/IPv6 address or host and port of
        your dedicated server. For more information,  see  the section
        on using dedicated server with Neverball.


Web: <https://neverball.org/>
Discord: <https://discord.gg/HhMfr4N6H6>
